Circuit Breaker pattern

Temporarily block access to a remote service or resource after failures reach a threshold, instead of repeatedly retrying an operation that's likely to fail. This approach handles faults that take varying amounts of time to recover from, lets the failing service recover, and improves the stability and resiliency of an application.

Context and problem

In a distributed environment, calls to remote resources and services can fail because of transient faults. Transient faults include overcommitted or temporarily unavailable resources, slow network connections, or time-outs. These faults typically correct themselves after a short period of time. To help manage these faults, you should design a cloud application to use a strategy, such as the Retry pattern.

Unanticipated events can create faults that take longer to fix. These faults can range in severity from a partial loss of connectivity to a complete service failure. In these situations, an application shouldn't continually retry an operation that's unlikely to succeed. Instead, the application should quickly recognize the failed operation and handle the failure accordingly.

If a service is busy, failure in one part of the system might lead to cascading failures. For example, you can configure an operation that invokes a service to implement a time-out. If the service fails to respond within this period, the operation replies with a failure message.

However, this strategy can block concurrent requests to the same operation until the time-out period expires. These blocked requests might hold critical system resources, such as memory, threads, and database connections. This problem can exhaust resources, which might fail other unrelated parts of the system that need to use the same resources.

In these situations, an operation should fail immediately and only attempt to invoke the service if it's likely to succeed. To resolve this problem, set a shorter time-out. But ensure that the time-out is long enough for the operation to succeed most of the time.

Solution

The Circuit Breaker pattern helps prevent an application from repeatedly trying to run an operation that's likely to fail. This pattern enables the application to continue running without waiting for the fault to be fixed or wasting CPU cycles on determining that the fault is persistent. The Circuit Breaker pattern also enables an application to detect when the fault is resolved. If the fault is resolved, the application can try to invoke the operation again.